Update Grafana, Add Jaeger to visualize data in Promscale (#963)
timescale/docs: promscale/visualize-data/grafana.md

PostgreSQL data sources in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as Prometheus data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source`to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Prometheus` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-metrics`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

When you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you
can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/getting-started-with-promscale-grafana-dashboard.png"
alt="Sample output for PromQl query"/>

Grafana ships with built-in support for Jaeger, which provides open source,
end-to-end distributed tracing.

> <procedure>

Reviewer: ```suggestion

<procedure>
```

# Connect Promscale and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, and other data source
plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible database.
To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with organization 
administration role privileges.

To connect Grafana with Promscale, install and run Grafana version 5.3 or later.
For information about installing Grafana, see the
[Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].

This section shows you how to connect Promscale to Prometheus, Jaeger, and
PostgreSQL data sources in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as Prometheus data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source`to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Prometheus` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:

>     *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-metrics`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-PromQL`.
```

You can also query metrics with SQL. This is about PromQL and I think it's better to name it like this but I don't have strong opinions here.

    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

When you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you
can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/getting-started-with-promscale-grafana-dashboard.png"
alt="Sample output for PromQl query"/>

> Grafana ships with built-in support for Jaeger, which provides open source,

Reviewer 2: Shouldn't this be part of the Configuring Promscale as Jaeger data source section? I understand we use a procedure but it's weird to see this text directly after talking about the Prometheus data source with not break in between (some title usually).

end-to-end distributed tracing.

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as Jaeger data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source`to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Jaeger` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:

>     *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-traces`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-Jaeger`.
```

You can also query traces with SQL. This is about querying via the Jaeger api and I think it's better to name it like this but I don't have strong opinions here.

    *   In the `URL`field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>`is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To

> visualize your traces, click the **Explore** button to see the traces filtering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
visualize your traces, click the **Explore** button and select the `Promscale-traces` data source to see the traces filtering
```

Replace Promscale-traces with Promscale-Jaeger if you replace the name of the data source above.

Reviewer 3: Hi @ramonguiu ! When I validated the steps I noticed that there was an option to explore at the bottom left when you are configuring the data source. Considering that the user just configured the Jaeger data source and has still not exited the page they may not have to select the `Promscale-traces` ![Screenshot 2022-04-14 at 4 56 19 PM](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/37059749/163391903-41944d1d-c5d4-4807-9cb2-361a8a422c6d.png)

Reviewer 2: Ah! Sounds great!

panel.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-jaeger-query-results.png"
alt="Sample output for Jaeger query filter in Grafana"/>

<procedure>

> To configure Promscale as PostgreSQL data source you need details such as host,

Reviewer 2: Again we transition to setting up a PostgreSQL data source without and section break (a title for example).

> port, database, user, and password. These are available in the PostgreSQL service. The format of that URL is `postgresql://[user[:password]@][host][:port][/dbname][?param1=value1&...]`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
port, database, user, and password of the underlying TimescaleDB / PostgreSQL database used by Promscale.
```
There is no such thing as PostgreSQL service (service is a Timescale Cloud name) and the parameters are when you start the database are not passed like in that URL.I think we are listing the url because this is how we show it in Timescale Cloud and we had it in our blog. I think we can just remove this whole sentence.

## Configuring Promscale as PostgreSQL data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type *PostgreSQL* in the search field and click `Select`. 
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-SQL`.
    *   In the `Host`field, type the IP address or hostname and optional port of

>         your PostgreSQL instance. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        your TimescaleDB / PostgreSQL instance. 
```

>     *   In the `Database` field, type the name of the PostgreSQL database.

Reviewer 2: @VineethReddy02 don't we know the name of the database? Isn't it tsdb?

>     *   In the `User`and `Password`fields, type the `user name` and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In the `User`and `Password` fields, type the `user name` and the
```

>         `password for the database`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        `password` for the database.
```

# Connect Promscale and Grafana

> 
> Grafana ships with a built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, and other data source
> plugins that allows you to query and visualize data from a compatible database.
> To Add a data source in Grafana you need to be a user with oraganization admin
> role previleges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, and other data source
plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible database.
To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with organization 
adminatration role privileges.
```

To connect Grafana with Promscale, install and run Grafana version 5.3 or later.

> For information about installing Grafana, see [Grafana installation
> docs][grafana-install].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For information about installing Grafana, see the
[Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].
```

PostgreSQL data sources in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as Prometheus data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source`to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Prometheus` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-metrics`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

When you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you
can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/getting-started-with-promscale-grafana-dashboard.png"
alt="Sample output for PromQl query"/>

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as Jaeger data source

Grafana ships with built-in support for Jaeger, which provides open source,

> end-to-end distributed tracing.

Reviewer: This goes above the procedure.

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source`to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Jaeger` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-traces`.
    *   In the `URL`field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>`is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To
visualize your traces, click the **Explore** button to see the traces filtering
panel.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-jaeger-query-results.png"
alt="Sample output for Jaeger query filter in Grafana"/>

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as PostgreSQL data source

To configure Promscale as PostgreSQL data source you need details such as host,

> port, database, user, and password. These are available in the PostgreSQL service. The format of that URL is `postgresql://[user[:password]@][host][:port][/dbname][?param1=value1&...]`

Reviewer: This goes above the procedure

# Connect Promscale and Grafana

To connect Grafana with Promscale, you should have Grafana running. If you do not have Grafana installed, follow the [Grafana installation docs][grafana-install].

> This section shows you how to connect Promscale as a Prometheus, Jaeger and PostgreSQL data sources in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to connect Promscale to Prometheus, Jaeger, and PostgreSQL data sources in
```

[Grafana][grafana-homepage].

<procedure>

> ## Promscale as Prometheus datasource

Reviewer: Missing a verb here. "Connecting"?

Author: Added it as "Configuring"

1.  Navigate to `Configuration → Data Sources → Add data source → Prometheus`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-metrics`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, using the IP
        address of your Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

> Once you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL
```

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/getting-started-with-promscale-grafana-dashboard.png" alt="Sample output for PromQl query"/>

<procedure>

> ## Promscale as Jaeger datasource

Reviewer: Missing a verb

1.  Navigate to `Configuration → Data Sources → Add data source → Jaeger`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-traces`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, using the IP
        address of your Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

> You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To visualize your traces, go to the “Explore” section of Grafana. You will be taken to the traces filtering panel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To visualize your traces, go to the `Explore` section of Grafana to see the traces filtering panel.
```

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-jaeger-query-results.png" alt="Sample output for Jaeger query filter in Grafana"/>

<procedure>

> ## Promscale as PostgreSQL datasource

Reviewer: Missing verb

1.  Navigate to `Configuration → Data Sources → Add data source → PostgreSQL`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-SQL`.
    *   In the Host field, type `<host>:<port>`, where host and port need to be 

>         obtained from the service url you copied when you created the Timescale cloud service. The format of that url is `postgresql://[user[:password]@][host][:port][/dbname][?param1=value1&...]`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        obtained from the service URL you copied when you created the Timescale cloud service. The format of that URL is `postgresql://[user[:password]@][host][:port][/dbname][?param1=value1&...]`
```

>     *   In the `Database` field, type the dbname from the service url.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Database` field, type the database name from the service URL.
```

>     *   In the User and Password fields, type the user and password from the service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   In the `User` and `Password` fields, type the user and password of the service.
```

    *   Change the `TLS/SSL Mode` to require as the service url by default contains 

>         the TLS mode as required.

Reviewer: I can't work out what this sentence is trying to say.

>     *   Change the `TLS/SSL Method` File system path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   Change the `TLS/SSL Method` file system path.
```

    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

>     *   In the PostgreSQL details section enable the TimescaleDB option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    *   In the PostgreSQL details section, check the `TimescaleDB` option.
```

Author: I prefer `enable` here as the enabling TimescaleDB option isn't a checkbox it's a kind of bar icon that needs to be clicked to enable. So the word enable represents the user that it needs to be turned on.

</procedure>

> You can now create panels that use Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source, using SQL queries to feed the chart

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now create panels that use Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source, using SQL queries to feed the chart.
```

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as Jaeger data source

Grafana ships with built-in support for Jaeger, which provides open source, end-to-end distributed tracing.

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`.
    The data sources page opens showing a list of previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source`to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Jaeger` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name`field, type `Promscale-traces`.
    *   In the `URL`field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>`is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To visualize your traces, click the **Explore** button to see the traces filtering panel.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-jaeger-query-results.png" alt="Sample output for Jaeger query filter in Grafana"/>

<procedure>

## Configuring Promscale as PostgreSQL data source

> To configure Promscale as PostgreSQL data source you need details such as host, port, database, user, and password. These are available in the service URL that you copied when you created the Timescale cloud service. The format of that URL is `postgresql://[user[:password]@][host][:port][/dbname][?param1=value1&...]`

Author: @Rajakavitha1 here the context isn't **Timescale Cloud Service** the reference blog post that we published is focused on Timescale cloud service being configured as the data source in Grafana. I would change the phrase from
```
These are available in the service URL that you copied when you created the Timescale cloud service. The format of that URL is
```

to

```
These details should be available in the PostgreSQL service URL. The format of that URL should be
```

# Connect Promscale and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, and other data source
plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible database.
To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with organization 

> adminatration role privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
administration role privileges.
```
